make-your-game:
With the passing of time and evolution of technology, the human brain has been requesting more and more stimuli to keep the brain occupied. Boredom happens whenever people don't receive enough of these stimuli. And you are not receiving enough of it, so you decide to make your own game. And to make it more challenging you decide to use JavaScript to make it.
Your game will be single player only and you will have to create your own engine and tools for the game. And as you try to search for all sorts of information you start to remember all the 60 FPS memes.

Objectives:
Here are some of the features you want to implement in your game:
Game runs at at least 60 FPS at all times, No frame drops!.
Proper use of RequestAnimationFrame.
It is very hard to predict performances in JS. So measure performances to see if your code is fast. This will be tested!
Pause menu, that includes: Continue, Restart
A score board that displays the following metrics:
Countdown clock or Timer that will indicate the amount of time the player has until the game ends or the time that the game has been running
Score that will display the current score (XP or points)
Lives that shows the number of lives that the player has left
The use of layers must be minimal but not zero in order to optimize the rendering performance.
You must not use frameworks or canvas, the game must be implemented using plain JS/DOM and HTML only

Instructions:
Animation must have consistent motion, so in order to have a smooth animation (without interruptions or so called jank animation) you must achieve the special number, 60 FPS. You can see more about performance here
In order to play the game the player must only use the keyboard. The controls must be smooth, in other words you should not need to spam a key to take actions in the game. Instead, for example, if a key is kept pressed, the player must continue to do the relevant action. If the key is released the player should stop doing the action.
Basically, motions triggered by a key must not jank or stutter.
For the pause menu you must be able to pause, restart, and continue the game whenever you want to do so. The frames should not drop if paused.
Pre-Approved List
Your game will have to respect the genre of one of these games listed below. In other words, the main goal of the game has to be similar to one of these:
Bomberman
Flipper/ Pinball
Space Invaders
Donkey Kong
Brick Breaker/ Arkanoid
Pac-Man
Super Mario
Tetris
Duck Hunt
Dev Tools
We strongly advise you to use Developer Tools available in every browser (can be accessed using hot keys that depend on the browser or from the browser's Tools menu option).
Developer tools that will help the most with developing this project:
Page Inspector: You can view and edit page content and layout.
Web Console: You can see your console.logs and interact with the page using JavaScript.
Performance Tool: You can analyze your site's general responsiveness, performance, Javascript and layout performance.
The tool that will help you the most is the Performance Tool. There you can record a sample of your actions on the site and analyze the FPS, check for frame drops, how much time your functions take to execute, and other useful metrics monitoring.
In the developer tools you can also find a Paint Flashing option that will highlight every paint that happens in your page as actions are performed on it.

This project will help you learn about:
requestAnimationFrame
Event loop
FPS
DOM
Jank/stutter animation
Transform/ opacity
Tasks
JavaScript
Styles
Layout
Painting
Compositing
Developer Tools
Firefox
Chrome